THE WAR BETWEEN DWARVES AND ELVES	
OF ARANWË AND GONDRI	
ORCS	
THE STONE	
FAIRIES	
VISIT TO GALADRINUVIEL	
TO THE MOUNTAIN	
SOMETHING GOES WRONG	

The War between Dwarves and Elves
Of Aranwë and Gondri

Outside, in the twilight, heavy rain was coming down upon Uinglan Gel, the Elven forest. Even the strong roof of leaves wasn't enough to hold the water back that was falling from the sky. Darkness was gathering already, and around every tree-trunk and even between the branches themselves persistent shadows lurked, only dispersed by the occasional bolt of lightning. The lightning was a few miles away to the north, and it tore at the sky, through the clouds and probably crashed violently into some trees in that area, which wasn't amazing since the forest was quite big and trees in a forest are, as you are probably well aware, pretty common. A dwelling, made of dark oak-wood, build strongly into one of the trees, was almost invisible. It had been build around the stem of one of the trees, roughly 50 feet from the ground. It looked commonplace enough though, with its round window, and small door on the left side. Both coming out onto a small porch. From this porch, a ladder of intertwined plants hung down to the ground. In the place could be seen a commonplace bed, a commonplace chair, with some nice soft dark-red cushions in it, a commonplace table. All made of the same wood. Around the floor, and also on the table, books were scattered. Large books, little books, heavy books, strong books bound in red leather. A rich, rune-covered, red-brown, carpet which made you feel as if you were walking on soft grass on a summers day instead of on a wooden floor, was laying on the aforementioned wooden floor. On the table, a wooden primitive lamp was alight, spreading its tiny light in all corners of the room, in a way which was quite surprising for such a little light. In the middle of this dwelling, through the floor and up through the roof ran a not so commonplace, inconveniently large, thank god branch-less, tree trunk. On the chair with the nice soft dark-red cushions, an Elf was sitting, reading a large book, laid out on his lap and with a muck of hot Hawthorn tea in his right hand, singing softly to himself while reading. 

Aranwë Langorn was his name. He liked this, cuddled awkwardly into the chair in a way which would only be comfortable to him, reading in one of his many books. He invariably used to sit like this at night in his place and feel very comfortable indeed, especially when the wind outside was howling and a lot of rain was pouring down and perhaps a little lightning as well, and this was one of those days when the setting was perfect. Just when he thought to himself how wonderful this all was, and how nice it was to be living in this hut, doing what he was doing at that time, there was a knocking at the door. Aranwë looked up with surprise, for he hadn't received visitors for a very, very long time, but as the knocking immediately seized he stared back at his book, trying to figure out where he was when he thought he imagined that he thought he heard a knock on the door. When, at last, he, finally, found where he left off, and was about to start again, the knock on the door repeated itself.
Aranwë Langorn got up with a very much surprised, and to tell the truth a little annoyed, look on his face, laid the book aside, and his cup of tea and asked whispering to himself who in the name of Karn that might be.
'Who keeps banging on my door?', he said in a plainly audible voice, for the thought that anybody was doing this in order to proclaim their presence to him hadn't crossed his mind yet. A short moment of hesitation was noticeable from behind the door. 
'A lost, lorn traveller, oh, tree-dweller.', a voice answered, 'Could I please come in? It's pouring rain outside, and I'm looking for a place to sleep. Have pity on a wanderer far from his place of origin, and I am sure the Gods will look with favour upon you.' At this, Aranwë walked towards the door, and opened it, for he was of the opinion that no elf should be left outside in weather such as this. Outside the door, however, a dwarf was, visible, blurry with the heavy curtain of rain in which he was trapped. Aranwë hesitated, but invited the poor dwarf inside with a quick gesture inwards with his hand. Once inside, the dwarf proceeded to take off a few of his most wet clothing and Aranwë had the chance to look at his unexpected guest more closely. 

He was a short, rather lumpy dwarf with black, curly hair and a particularly wet black curly beard of the same type as his hair, running down towards his shoes, dripping water unto Aranwë's carpet, like it had soaked up all the water from the entire Seven Oceans and was trying to get rid of it. Already, a large dark spot was visible upon the carpet and the floor. His head was congenial, and friendly, yet his facial muscles expressed signs of nervousness and uncertainty, almost invisible behind his rinkled face. He had a lot more colour on his cheeks and face, then most dwarfs, which led Aranwë to believe, that he was one of the few that come forth from the mountains regularly. He was dressed in some dark-brown, dark-green, rugged stuff and had a black hood stuffed down almost over his eyes, which was in about the same condition as his beard, and he wore strong leather self-made shoes, which looked like they had seen a lot of action.

'Gondri Glinhir, Son of Parvegi Glinhir, is my name, sir.', the dwarf introduced himself as, taking of his hood and bowing low.
'Aranwë Langorn, Son of Fandol Langorn, Elf of Uinglan Forest.', answered Aranwë with a slight temporary nod of the head.
'Thank you kindly, my dear Elf. In this weather, one should not be outside. I am sure of foot in the mountains, yet with this weather, it is almost not done. I am sorry to intrude on your company, yet I want to ask you whether you would mind taking me up for the night. Just for tonight.', said the dwarf.
'I would pay you handsomely, ofcourse.', the dwarf continued, eyeing Aranwë nervously. Aranwë, however, was a good-natured elf, and not the sort of elf to leave anybody standing alone, outside in bad weather, instead of some Elves I could mention. He was extremely less complexioned then his guest, with no beard, nor moustache, for elves do not have facial hair, though with long hair, flowing over his shoulders and back, whilst a larger part of it was tied behind his back in a, to the dwarf, strange unknown pattern. Through this tail of hair ran silvery-white lines of some unknown material. He was clothed in bright green, light red, and light brown, fine silken-like clothing, of which the bright green was the most stunning, and you could tell he was totally adapted to the forest, and able to blend in with his environment. His clothing reminded of leaved in trees without actually being one, though if this was for camouflage or just done for effect, the dwarf couldn't make out. Around Aranwë's waist a leather belt was tied. On the left side of it, a short dagger in a sheath, was attached to it. The one thing that was the most striking was that, as the dwarf was made of solid stuff, Aranwë seemed to be made of slender, almost fragile, stuff and at times seemed almost transparent. Inside him, in a strange way, a very small, almost undetectable, light was emanating. Aranwë, though a little unaccustomed to dwarfs, explained that he was welcome to spend the night, but that he didn't have much use for payment of any kind, for the forest provided all he needed.
'I am sure we can work something out.', the dwarf replied.
'Might I ask of you what you were doing coming so close to this forest? Usually dwarfs ignore this place in the same way we ignore the mountains. On what kind of errand were you?', asked Aranwë puzzled.
'I was heading back from the village Pendulis where I had to get some stuff, but I was surprised to find the weather turning a little grim, and decided to take a short cut through the forest, which seemed like a good idea at the time.', grumbled Gondri.
'You are welcome to stay in my place, but you have to find your own nieche to sleep in.'
'I think I can manage.', after having said which, the dwarf walked to the middle of the room, took some clothing from his backpack, and made a emergency bed then and there, which looked quite comfortable.
'Would you mind if I hung some of my clothing in here to dry?'.
'Not at all.'
And the dwarf proceeded putting some of his most wet things onto the chair and table and all, apparently clothing of himself which got quite wet outside. After that was done, and a lot of furniture in the room was partially covered with the dark-coloured clothing of the dwarf, like ugly uncouth patches sewn over damaged fabric, giving the furniture a rather poverish look, he lay himself down to rest among his improvised sleeping-place, and almost immediately fell deep asleep. Aranwë decided there was nothing else to do then to go to rest also, if this was indeed possible or wise with such a strange dwarf close by. Aranwë and Gondri slept soundly together, Aranwë sleeping very light and almost not breathing, Gondri snoring vigilantly, both enveloped in a damp atmosphere emanating from the clothing on the furniture. Gondri succeeded in making some aimless movements in his sleep, but that was probably the only thing of importance to note in this night, so we'll let them sleep soundly and see what the morrow will bring.

The next morning, when the sun was beginning to try raising itself above the horizon, Aranwë awoke due to some racket Gondri was making, other than snoring through the night. Apparently he was searching his backpack rather noisily. 
'What are you doing?', Aranwë asked with less of his usual alertness, due to this untimely awakening.
'I am trying to find something, what does it look like I'm doing?', Gondri answered with a sneer, 'Ah, I think I've got it!'. The dwarf succeeded in tugging out of his backpack a small leather packet, and handed it over to Aranwë. 
'There, my money is little, but my wealth is great. I have made this from stones I found under the mountain.'.
'This ugly dirty ragged piece of leather?', asked Aranwë puzzled.
'No!', said Gondri with an impatient air, 'What's inside it, of course! As you are tree elves, and dress in green and all, I thought this gift to be particularly appropriate to you.' Quickly Aranwë opened up the package, and there it lay, a beautiful light green and slightly transparant gem, dazzling in the light, simply oval shaped form, with many faces on its top, and a flat surface at the bottom. It was crystal clear, as water wherein the dull green hue of plants is visible. Aranwë was much surprised and wondered at the great stone he had in his hand. 
'Most jewels do have a name, at least, the great ones have.', whispered Grondi confidentially to Aranwë.
'Ah, and what is his name?', asked Aranwë, keenly interested.
'It has no name yet, for it was newly shaped by me out of a piece of green rock found under the mountain. As I give it to you, you must name it.', answered Gondri in reply, 'and it will receive a history, which all great ones already have.'
Light filtered down the trees, and struck the green gem, which promptly responded and shot rays into all directions, which made it seem like Aranwë had a tiny pinpoint of light in the middle of his hand. 
'Calengil I will call you,', Aranwë spoke to the tiny gem, bringing it to his eye, 'for you sparkle like a green star when Kúri hits you with his light.'

It was a thing Aranwë had never seen before in his life, nor any other Elf had. Up until that time Jewels were something unknown to them, and only dwarfs were able to make these, and even now they still posses this art in a great degree. But as the bonds between Elves and Dwarfes weren't that tight, the Elves had never heard or seen jewels.
'Well?', Gondri asked Aranwë eyeing him suspiciously, 'Do you think it is payment enough for you?'
'Yes, it is very fine craftsmanship.', replied Aranwë, still looking a bit stunned from surprise at the extraordinary gift he received, 'Did you make this thing?'.
'Aye, but there's a lot more where that came from. Well, I must be getting off. It's getting late.'
'Where are you travelling too, anyway?', asked Aranwë.
'South, back to the mountains. Did some shopping in town.'. At this Gondri turned around, climbed down the rope-like ladder with some cowardly looks towards the floor and started following the road towards the mountains. Aranwë stood there, looking at Gondri as he walked on. When Gondri was about to disappear from view he turned round and waved one last goodbye to Aranwë, and vanished between the trees.

From that time on, Gondri used to take the road through the forest more often. As a result he and Aranwë met frequently, for Aranwë was glad of the company, so much different and down to earth, compared to Elves, and Gondri was also glad of the company, for somebody to talk to, and a place to stay during the long track to and fro between the mountains and the town. And so, a tight friendship formed, unsuspected between the two, until they didn't know any better, then as if it had always been. 
Orcs

One day, around twilight, Aranwë was walking back to his dwelling, after spending some time in the forest, visiting friends of his. He had a jolly good time, but now the darkness was gathering and the forest was strangely silent. The trees looked dark, and the night was black. The skies must have been cloudy, for no star nor moon would show its face that night as though they were in hiding. Due to this lack of light, the trees were dark, the leaves were dark, and the passage through which Aranwë normally walked briskly and with spirit, didn't have the same welcoming quality about it. Not a whisper or crack could be heard of leaf or branch and the wind lay as still as death. It was as if the silence of the forest was a sort contempt for something. A sensation was hanging between the trees which foreboded nothing but disaster, and the closer Aranwë got to his shed, the stronger the sensation became until he could almost feel it. When he was still a fair distance from his hut in the trees, but able to see the hut, none the less, he noticed that a light was burning.
'Did I forgot to turn the lights out?', he muttered to himself in surprise, 'I didn't think so.'
At that moment he noticed that darkness was every now and then obscuring the light, as if somebody was walking in front of it. Aranwë, feeling rather disconcerted, and a deep sense of danger, took the dagger out of his belt, and proceeded noiselessly and stealthily towards his hut. When he was almost within a hundred yards of it, shapes were beginning to emerge from the doorway. Strange shapes that Aranwë couldn't make out. They were neither dwarf nor Elf, yet not animal like.
'Who goes there!', shouted Aranwë at the top of his voice. The dark shapes immediately stood still for a few seconds, and then proceeded to lower themselves down the rope from the porch as quickly as possible. Apparently they weren't in the mood for fighting or being seen. Before Aranwë was at his place they had already gone and disappeared into the forest and not even Aranwë, with his Elven eyes, could see them any more. Aranwë decided to stop chasing them and first to see what mischief they had done up into his dwelling. 

He climbed the rope all the way to the porch. The door was hanging on only one of its hinges and clearly his house had been broken into. Inside, nothing was left standing. The chairs were smashed to little bits, the books were littered everywhere, apparently smashed to all corners of the room. Sheets, torn from the books, were also everywhere, scattered about the floor. The table, where Aranwë kept the precious gift given to him by Gondri, was empty. No jewel to be found. Apparently, attracted by its light, they stole it, whoever they were. Aranwë felt it as a great loss, not only was it very precious, it was also a gift from Gondri and he had lost it. No matter what, he had to get it back somehow. First Aranwë made a sharp examination of all that was present in the room, to see if either the jewel were lost somewhere among the mess, or whether any of his unwelcome visitors left any tracks or trail.
'If there are any tracks here, I cannot find them. I should wait for the morning, but who knows where these beings will be by that time.', muttered Aranwë displeased. He got out of the hut, down the rope and proceeded to examine the ground below the tree minutely with the aid of the light, he brought from the hut and which was still burning. One of the few things that had been saved from the vile clutches of the enemy. He didn't have to look long, for there in the soft grass, large and deep impressions were visible of strong square-like feet. They were leading towards the north. And slowly Aranwë followed them, into the darkness, into the forest, watching, listening for any trace of these new and strange beings.

After some time of walking, he approached a part of the forest where the ground was hard, and it was almost impossible to see the faint impressions left by the villains, and a few moments later the impressions vanished all together. Aranwë didn't have any leads left, the only thing he could do was follow the direction in which the footsteps were going when he last saw them. Then, an owl suddenly descended from above and sat on a branch of a tree near Aranwë and demanded Aranwë's attention in a loud voice. Aranwë listen attentively, for although animals do not have to power of speech, they can convey their emotions very good, and they come in a wide variety. You just have to pay attention. Aranwë, as all Elves, understood the emotions of animals, and listen to what the old bird had to say. With a lot of querulous and indignant squaks, the bird managed to convey the message that some creatures had disturbed him greatly, partly by their noise, and partly by what they represented. After that the owl flew due west, and sat on a branch a little away from Aranwë. Aranwë understood the hint immediately and followed the owl and went due west. After a little time, the ground softened and he was able to rediscover the footsteps and continue.
The Stone

Aranwë had walked for a long time, keeping his eyes fixed on the footsteps before him. They were still heading west. With Aranwë's keen eye-sight he looked at the footsteps in front of him to have a closer look at something alarming. They appeared to be slowing down, as was visible by the spaces between each step. 
'Apparently they are reaching their destination', thought Aranwë, and this apparently was also his destination. Aranwë walked carefully on, and ducked a little lower, for any minute now and these beings could be right in front of him. His senses were extremely alert at this time, and they had to be, for within a few minutes he reached the outer trees of a small clearing in the forest. If he hadn't looked out so well he would have just walked on, into the clearing and into the clutches of anybody there present. As it was, he could just make out the clearing from behind the bushes. It was impossible to see the clearing through the trees if you weren't a few feet away. 
'On the other hand, people in the clearing cannot see me either.', thought Aranwë, and he managed to creep up close to the clearing, keeping behind the bushes and from there it was possible for him to see some of what was going on.

Inside the clearing stood a stone rock, flat, horizontal, resting upon two little flat stones, put with the sides into the ground. These stone rocks seemed to be put there in a sort of altar-formation. Apparently it was a place where sacrifices of some kind were made and Aranwë recognised it immediately as being Carant Duianna, the Place of Sacrifice. Out of the different memories of Aranwë, remembered out of long lost forgotten time and a remembrance of the Younger Days of Elves, Aranwë knew what it was. It seemed to be the place where sacrifices could be put for the Fairies. These Fairies were distant cousins of the Elves, for although Elves themselves had some features that were equal to Fairies, Fairies had these features in a much stronger degree. They are almost never visible, for they exist on another Plane of Reality, they are slightly smaller and manage to flit between Planes. The Elves are a strange kind, in that they have no definite plane to themselves. They exist in both Planes, yet not entirely in each one. This stone was meant to hold the fruit and other stuff to appease the Fairies. The clearing contained nothing but these three stones, a lot of grass and a small unused trail leading away from it into the forest. Outside the clearing, trees and bushes were thicker then ever. It was not an even change, like some clearings, where slowly the amount of trees and bushes diminish, until suddenly you are in the clearing, and can see all around you. It was a sudden change, the clearing was surrounded by a dense wall of trees and bushes. 

Before the stone, somebody was standing. Aranwë couldn't exactly make it out, yet he didn't dare to push any further into the shrubbery for fear that somebody (or something) might hear him, or that he would become visible from the clearing. This person seemed to be clad in solid black robes which covered almost every inch of his body. A cap hung loosely over his head, obscuring most of his face. The black robes were of a strange material, it was almost impossibly black. It didn't reflect any light, it just absorbed it all. It wasn't just that it was black, it was a hair-raising, mind-boggling, intense, deep, energy-absorbing black, which made Aranwë look away with his eyes full of tears, every time he had looked too closely at it. Before him, Aranwë could see the strange beings that so brutally raided his hut, clearly now for the stars were shining through the clouds, and unto the clearing, where no trees and bushes hindered its light. They appeared to be made of dwarfish-like substance, yet more rugged around the edges, as if somebody didn't take the amount of time needed to create them. They looked squarish, made of stone almost, and they squinted at the moon, as if its light hurt them. They looked like something Aranwë had never seen before, and which made him feel sick in his stomach. They felt evil, and yet Aranwë was barely able to sense it, for the evil that emanated from that person near the stones, was so strong that it pervaded everything. The forest around them was awfully quiet as if either the forest was silent, or everything that could make any sound had long since left at the approach of that person by the rocks and Aranwë imagined that the clearing was only there, because that person was there. That nothing could grow or breathe anywhere near. Aranwë sat quietly down on the ground before the bushes through which he could see almost everything, trying not to break into a sweat and failing, for his forehead was dabbled in the cold sweat of mind-boggling fear. Aranwë was stunned, for this sensation was entirely new to him, he felt very hot yet the night was cool like it always is at that time of night, and he had trouble breathing, as if the air was poisoned with something other than toxic fumes.
'I have to be gone quick, or I will either betray myself or pass out.', Aranwë thought with difficulty. There was some commotion going on between the person by the rocks and the beings Aranwë saw. Apparently they were having a heated conversation. The person at the stone was, for some reason, very displeased with them, and they cowered before him for they were afraid of him. Then one of them, in an attempt to explain what happened, showed the green jewel to the person in front of the stone. Even on this dark night, when the skies were black, the gem glimmered, and shone with an inner light. The person near the stone came forward, and snatched the gem away from them in order to look at it himself. Apparently he wanted to keep it for himself, for he tucked it away in his clothing, yet that was not at all to the liking of the leader of the group standing before him, for he called out a long sentence, of which only one word was loud enough for Aranwë to hear. That word was 'Zhanos' and Aranwë conjectured it to be the name of the person with the gem, for the man answered abruptly, took a few steps forward, and hit the leader of the group full on the face, who immediately dropped back, cowering. 

As Aranwë heard that word 'Zhanos', he felt, due to all the circumstances and the man at the stone and his evil influence, his mind slowly slipping away. Aranwë tried to keep himself from falling unconscious, yet managed only for a few seconds, after which he felt himself falling down, into darkness, slowly losing all his dread of the scene he witnessed. His head dropped forward, and his body, in more or less the same position, stayed where it was, while its occupant was busy elsewhere, which was a good thing for if he had fell forward, or backward, the noise would surely have attracted unhealthy attention from the clearing. 

Fairies

When he finally became aware of himself and his surroundings again, the forest was not at dark as it had been and Aranwë was slowly able to see more about him. In front of him, through the bushes, he could see the clearing with the rocks. It appeared to be totally deserted, yet a shape was left upon the ground.
Aranwë proceeded, still a little dizzy, with staggering steps, trying to be very quiet and not succeeding very well, into the clearing. It was totally empty and remained so. The calm night air and the quiet surroundings of the forest about him all gave Aranwë the idea that it had all been a dream, if it wasn't for that strange shape on the ground. It was the leader of the group of burglars, who had burgled his house. As it lay there, stripped of all its evil menace, it didn't look so dangerous any more to Aranwë. He examined the corpse most thoroughly. IT appeared to be male, clad in rough, rugged, dirty clothing. He seemed to have been quite tall, though with his shoulders stooping slightly forward. He still held in his hand a short black blade, with strange runes upon it which gave Aranwë the shivers.

At that moment a strange strong blue light appeared to fly from some tree nearby and land on the stone altar. Slowly the light dimmed and a form became visible of a small female creature, only half the height of Aranwë, and shining with the same inner light as Aranwë, yet stronger somehow. It put one of her legs over the other and said hello.
'Hello.' 
Aranwë twisted round rather sharply for he was quite alarmed, and almost succeeded to hurt himself pretty badly from that manoeuvre. He was still feeling a bit jumpy from his adventures at this clearing, and thought the hello would accompany a sudden stroke from a heavy or sharp object aimed at him. On the stone he saw the same thing I have just described to you. He recognised it as a Fairy, although the Elves and Fairies are only distantly related and Fairies keep themselves very much to themselves. However, this was a strange night, and on strange nights, strange things happen to strange Elves. 
Aranwë was greatly relieved to find a cousin sitting near him, even if it was only a distant one.
'Hello.', said Aranwë. After that there was a slight pause and he didn't know exactly what to do or how to behave. Finally he thought of something simple to say.
'Have you seen what went on here?', ask Aranwë of the little Fairy.
'Aye, and heard too.'
'Then you probably know what they said.'
'No, I couldn't understand them.'
'Damn, perhaps you could have helped me solve this puzzle.'
'I can't.', the Fairy thought about it, 'However I can help you locate them. The orcs went away in that direction', she points north-like, 'and the dark one left to the west. I also witnessed that the dark one gave a small green thing to the orcs which meant to be for safe keeping. He was very reluctant to give it up to them however, but at last he did and apparently gave them some instructions which I didn't understand. After that they immediately left. After that you came blundering and staggering through the bushes in the south upon the clearing, and I found it judicious to appear before you.'
'Thank you my little Fairy, when I come back here next time, I'll bring you something.', Aranwë replied upon her story with a slight bow. She grinned.
'What are you going to do now?', asked to Fairy, kocking her head at an angle, looking very inquisitive.
'I am going to go follow the Yrch.'
'You do that, and be carefull.', at which she got up, turned into the previous visible bright light and disappeared quickly between the trees, flying erratically.

Aranwë kept looking at her until she disappeared between the trees, and with one last look at the corpse at his feet, he disappeared, again in pursuit of the Yrch. He found the footsteps again, in the soft ground due north of the clearing. He followed them through the trees and the bushes and kept a good pace, until he heard a sound quite a distance away from him, as if some people were talking together. He moved on quietly into the direction of the sound. Within minutes, in front of him, he could distinguish two of these vile creatures, heading further into the forest. 'Now what.', thought Aranwë, 'Should I just slay them now, or with some subtle trickery?'.
 

[Aranwë falls unconscious] [He awakes to find a small Fairy sitting on the stone] [Asks Fairy what happened] [Fairy tells him] [Tells him where person went, where orcs went, what orcs took with them] [Bids goodbye, and tells him to be careful] [Aranwë [Aranwë keeps following them, but they split up, Aranwë follows Orcs for they have the jewel.] [Zhanos wishes them to take the jewel somewhere] [Aranwë gets them unawares] [led before Galadrinuviel, found jewels, everybody interested.]

In the mean time, however, both elves in the forest and dwarves in the mountains were beginning to talk, and rumours were spread about. Not just rumours about an unheard of friendship between Aranwë and a dwarf, but also rumours about strange objects that the dwarf gave to Aranwë, for the right to sleep there every now and then. Indeed, the rumours became so strong that they were overheard by one of the eldest elves called Galadrinuviel Ion, who had much influence over the Elves in the community. Galadrinuviel sent a messenger from his extensive household to Aranwë, in order to explain things to him, for a friendship between Elves and dwarves was unheard of at that time, and the Elves and the Dwarves had entirely different views, and of course Galadrinuviel wanted to know about those objects that Aranwë was getting, for the rumours said that they were of great beauty and also of great power.

Aranwë had been busy in the forest, walking about, picking his lunch from trees while he walked, generally having a really relaxed time of it all, and he now returned to his little home in the trees to find a dust-covered and travel-worn messenger there, waiting for him. 
'Hi there, what is it you want?', asked Aranwë the travelling dust-covered messenger.
'I have a message from Galadrinuviel Ion to deliver to you.'
'Well, let's hear it.'
'Galadrinuviel welcomes you to his home, if you were to honour him by coming. He would very much like to hear tales about your presumed friendship with a Dwarf.', the messenger replied, then turned round, got down the ladder and left again. 

Visit to Galadrinuviel

Aranwë left his place at the tree, as soon as the message from Galadrinuviel arrived. And after one day of travelling on foot, for he lived outside the centre of the Elven Community, being fond of his ease, he reached the domicile of Galadrinuviel, unofficial leader, and wisest and oldest of all elves. It is said, that he was one of the first of the Elven people to wake up from their long slumber, when the world was still as young as they were. The house of Galadrinuviel was, of course, the biggest in the village, and the entire village, of course, was build up into the trees. A strange house it was, not made of planks and boards of wood, but it looked like the elves had mastered the art of making trees and plants and nature grow according to their specifications. And so the house of the honourable Galadrinuviel was made of a tree, the biggest tree in the forest, with bark of green, and covered with moss, which, somewhere halfway branched off into, at first horizontal, directions, and created in this way a nice solid, floor where elves could live. Two guards were standing at the foot of the tree, and also a few guards were in the tree, watching. 

Aranwë, after a long day of walking, arrived at the community of the Elves around the afternoon. He had not been in this village for a long time, and around him a lot of things could be seen. In the trees, lots of dwellings were build, all around the stem of some of the biggest trees. Between the trees, small, tricky, bridges were laid between the different houses, made of wood and rope. A lot of people were busy walking around, and about.
Finally, after much walking and trying to keep his balance, Aranwë arrived at what looked like the oldest and biggest tree. In the tree some strange stick-like staircase was embedded and two guards were standing in front, and when he tried to pass them they challenged him.
'Who goes there, and what do you want?', the left guard bellowed.
'I am Aranwë, I was summoned here by Galadrinuviel.', he answered to the guards, who promptly released their arms.
'You may go up.', the right guard spoke to Aranwë, and Aranwë proceeded to climb the tree with all agility Elves can muster. The two guards, however, were looking at him with a puzzled and curious look as he passed. They were mostly curious however, eager to learn about this strange hermit-like Elf and his companion. Aranwë, however, didn't notice it, and went right into the hall where Galadrinuviel and his partner in life, Kalinatiel receive their guests. Both were sitting at the end of a hall, which roof was created by the dense roof of leaves of the tree. Both were seated on, what can only be described as thrones of treewood, actually attached to the tree itself, and part of the tree, grown there in some magical way. To the left-wall, near Galadrinuviel, sat a tall, wise-looking elf, who Aranwë didn't know, but he did feel some kind of stange resentment towards him which he couldn't explain. Aranwë bowed deeply before them and succeeded almost in touching the floor with his long hair, and spoke.
'Here I have come at your bidding, my lord. Tell me what it is you want of me.'
With a short nod of their heads they answered the bow of Aranwë. Then Galadrinuviel started to speak.
'It has come to my knowledge that you cultivate a friendship with a dwarf. I have never heard of this before. Is this true?' Aranwë looked at the strange elf sitting near Galadrinuviel. 
Galadrinuviel following the gaze of Aranwë, spoke: 'Ah, I am sorry. I forgot to formely introduce you to my most trusted advisor. You may speak as frankly before him, as before me. His name is Girdolb Erhondo.'. The Elf bowed short before Aranwë.
Aranwë turned to face Galadrinuviel and continued, 'Yes, indeed, I have struck a friendship with a dwarf. I didn't mean to, in the beginning, it just happened. One day, he stood in front of my hut, in the pooring rain, and knocked, and one thing led to another.'
'I must say however', resumed Aranwë in a confidential tone of voice, 'that he rewarded me most handsomely for my troubles.'
'Ah?', one eyebrow of Galadrinuviel awoke and his peering face betrayed his interest and curiosity in this affair, 'and how did he do that, may I inquire?'
'Well, he gave me this, the first time we encountered one another.', upon which Aranwë took from his breastpocket a small leatherly lap and handed it gently over to his wife, Kalinatiel. Kalinatiel received the package with wide eyes, and slowly started to unwrap the cloth. Then, a tiny ray of light was able to penetrate the dense roof of leaves above the hall, and reached the very centre of the jewel, which was unwrapped, shining and shooting rays of bright green light into every direction. Kalinatiel was amazed with it, for she had never in her whole life seen anything that resembled it.
'I received it from Gondri, that's the name of the dwarf, in return for his spending the night in my cabin.' At that moment Girdolb also reacted, and came closer, a strange light glimmering in his eye of the same colour as the sparkling jewel, however it went unnoticed by all in the room.
'It's beautiful, and you tell me the dwarf made it?', asked Girdolb to Aranwë.
'Yes, he did, he said he had plenty where that came from.' At these words Galadrinuviel fell silent. After a while he proceeded to speak again :'Would you mind bringing me in contact with this skilled dwarf, and perhaps we might be able to strike up an agreement, for these items are great, and I wish to purchase them. I would exchange wood-stuff for them willingly.'
'Very well, my lord. I can try.', with which words Aranwë left the hall, taking the green stone with him as he left. He climbed down the tree, and spent the night there at some friends of his, for, although he didn't have many friends, he did have some very reliable ones. With those friends he was enjoying a quite afternoon, when there was a knock on the door. One of them went to open it and came back with the message that somebody was outside and he wanted to speak to Aranwë.
'All right, I'm coming. Who wants to speak to me?'
'It's a messenger of the advisor of lord Galadrinuviel.'
'Ah?', replied Aranwë.
'He says it's private and not destined for other ears and he won't enter the house.'
'Ah, very well, I will come.', and he went outside to talk to him. 
Outside, the messenger was standing, almost invisible against the forest background, leaning against the railing of the house.
'You wished to speak to me?'
'Aye, I do. I have a message. If you would be so kind as to meet with the advisor tomorrow. He would be much obliged.'
'Very well. Tell him I'll be there tomorrow morning.'
After a short bow, the messenger left.

And the next morning, Aranwë went to the Hall, where the advisor lived. And he was shown up. And there he was, the man, all alone.
'I wish to know where this friend of yours lives.'
'Why do you wish to know?', answered Aranwë suspiciously.
'[think hard]

To the mountain

The next morning, Aranwë, after walking home, stood up, in order to begin the walk to Gondri, the dwarf, towards the mountains. Though Gondri had frequently visited Aranwë, Aranwë had never visited Gondri, the dwarf at his house under mountain Mahazûm, which is the third one on the left, near lake Rannyn Eriel. After a few hours of travelling he succeeded in reaching the mountain. In front of him a huge gate towered, made of oak, with strong iron hinges embedded into the rock. Two really terrifically big oaken doors barred his way. Feeling very small and insignificant, for Aranwë was much impressed by both the size of the doors as the size of the entire mountain, and approached the doors hesitantly, and knocked, loud and clear. Almost immediately, a small hole appeared in the door, and a dwarfish looking eye was visible inside.
'Who are you and what is your business here?', asked an unfriendly voice.
'I am Aranwë Langorn, Son of Fandol Langorn, Elf of Uinglan Forest.', Aranwë told the dwarf behind the door, 'and I would like to speak to the dwarf Gondri Glinhir, Son of Parvegi Glinhir.'
A lot of noise of metal against metal was heard behind the door, but despite that the doors were almost immediately opened, to reveal an extensive dwelling inside. This was only the main hall. Aranwë was stunned with what he saw. Despite the fact that the visibility was good, torches were displayed at steady distances on all walls, each shedding their light in a tiny circle, throwing flickering shadows across the hallway. The main hall opened up towards the north into a long corridor. Out of this a dwarf was walking, in which Aranwë immediately recognised his friend and companion Gondri.

'Well, well, Aranwë, what an unexpected pleasure this is! Welcome under the mountain!', Gondri said after a short bow, 'It is a great honour to me to finally show you the place where we dwell in all it's splendour.'
To tell the truth, Aranwë looked a little disturbed, for he thought it a living hell to live for eternity underground, in the darkness. Elves are very strict, they like to live in wide open spaces.
'I have come to relay a message from one of our eldest Elves, Galadrinuviel Ion, but that can wait. And how are you? ', asked Aranwë concerned.
'Ah, well, I am fine.', the dwarf interjected, immediately taking his guest by the arm and practically dragging him towards the corridor, 'Let me show you my humble room.' Gondri succeeded in pushing his guest with mild gestured through the corridor.
'It's not very far, though we do have to go a bit underground, no less.' Around them dwarfs were walking through the same corridor. The dwarfs, as the passed by, gazed at the Elf who walked through their halls and tunneling corridors, in disbelief, for it was the very first time that an Elf walked where they walked. 

After a few minutes of steady walking, going down staircases and through a whole lot of corridors, Aranwë was thoroughly lost although he had a vague sense of where he was inside the mountain. Then suddenly they came to a small door, build into the rock, which had the name Gondri written over it in small normal dwarfisch letters which Aranwë couldn't read. 
'Enter my humble abode.', Gondri said, while with his left hand he opened his door of his abode to his honoured guest.
Aranwë walked in, not knowing what to expect. Inside it looked like a bit of a mess, in fact, it's better to be absolutely certain about this, it was a bit of a mess. In fact a big mess, inside. Clothing was hanging over every piece of furniture, and therefore the identity of the room was uncertain. It had, probably due to the mess, a homely look about it. A bed was standing in the corner, a table with three three-legged chairs was visible on which stood some empty, unwashed, mugs. Against the west wall, a small hanging cupboard could be seen, carrying more mugs inside its innermost recesses, along with some bottles of some strange purple liquid. Gondri removed one of the bottle of purple liquid from the cupboard, and started pouring it into two mugs that were standing on the table.
'Now, tell me what your mighty Galadrinuviel wanted to ask of me.', replied Gondri to his guest, only looking up every know and then at Aranwë, trying not to spill the drinks, and failing. For every time he looked at Aranwë, he succeeded in putting another stain on the table.
'May I sit down?', asked Aranwë.
'Sure.'
Aranwë got one of the three-legged chairs and sat on it, watching Gondri make the two drinks.
'My lord, Galadrinuviel is interested in your jewels and would wish to purchase some from you.', said Aranwë, 'That's why he wanted to talk to me.'
''Well, I guess it couldn't hurt, now could it!', answered Gondri to the supposition of Galadrinuviel, 'Tell him I would be happy to exchange jewels with him, for verious other commodities which we cannot get here in the mountain. '
'I will.', replied Aranwë and both friends parted, after a harty conversation about what each other did. Once Aranwë got back home, he immediately dismissed a messenger to Galadrinuviel to tell them of progress.

There's no need to get into it any deeper than this. Galadrinuviel and Gondri the dwarf received their due shares through Aranwë. And not a very long while later a standing arrangement was made which kept the jewels coming to the Elves and the stuff needed for the dwarfes which they could not manufacture themselves to them under the mountain.

Something goes wrong

It all went perfectly well and everybody was pretty satisfied with the deal, until something went wrong. Something went dreadfully wrong. 


