New Deputies

Howdie, People of Karchan...

Recently I have received through various sources multiple applications for
deputy ship. Seeing as about Kass is the only one actually doing anything
I think there is room for this.

I need to know who wants to be a deputy. 

The information below is necessary for you to decide if you wish to be a
deputy or not. I mean, it entails quite a bit.

Advantages
----------

- you become a deputy with certain special commands at your disposal
- you will be yelled at and generally abused by nasty and unpolite
players, it's imperative that you do not lose your temper
- you will have access to the database
- you may make changes (within certain context) to the database
- you will be able to store pictures (for use on mud) onto the server
- you will receive an ssh account (Secure Shell account, ask Kass for more
info)
- you will follow a certain set of rules that are in the documentation
- you will be able to make changes to the source code by means of CVS
(Concurrent Version Control System), Kass also knows about this
- you will be responsible for keeping players in line (decision on wether
player is out of line or not are defined by rules in documentation)

Requirements
------------

- UNIX/Linux abilities are a plus
- Database abilities are a plus
- if you are a windows user you will need the Artronics Client for
connecting to the database and Putty for SSHing to the server, don't ask
me how these work, I'm a UNIX User.
- programming experience (C/HTML/scripting) is a plus
- if you are a Linux/UNIX user, ask me anything about the MYSQL client for
connecting to the database and the SSH client for connecting to the server
- uploading of pictures currently does not take place directly. You can
upload pictures to your account using SSH and then request me to move them
onto the website space.

Disadvantages
-------------

The fee:
- 10$ administration costs
- 20$ per month deputy membership

I request that you pay the money one month in advance, this because it
takes some time to filter down through the International Banking
System. And it shows dependability.

I recently aquired an account at PayPal. Seeing as this is the most
costeffective way for me to aquire money, I would appreciate it if you
would use the PayPal way to giving me money.

For those of you who have qualms,doubts and fear of the PayPal way, you
can also send me a check. If you send me a check, please add 10$ for
moneytransfercosts. (This in itself justifies using
PayPal.)
Once I receive all applications for deputie-ship, I'll send out an email
again announcing the new deputies and providing the necessary info as
well as instructions for payment.

Regards,

P.S. Seeing as these rules are kinda important I will ask if they be put
onto deouty@yahoogroups.com

P.P.S. These rules, ofcourse, are subject to change and I will try and be
prompt to make these changes known.

P.P.P.S. This list is by no means comprehensive, look onto the deputy
mailinglist or CVS for more info.

Annoying Users
--------------
 This game will always have annoying users. All games have these users
   and they are very hard to get rid off. It is also slightly vague what
   constitutes a "annoying user". I'll try to make clear what to do when
   a certain character does something annoying.

   About the "Action" part, the numbers go up in intensity. Give the
   player time to repent his ungodly ways.

    1. Profanity
       It is forbidden to use profane names for characters. Be careful
       how to define profane, if you find it offensive, others will too
       and that give you a good reason.
       Action: These characters are to be immediately banned from the
       game.
 2. Cursing
       Cursing is allowed, as long as it is in moderation. Cursing
       against one or more players specially, continually is forbidden.
      Action:
         1. Tell them in a friendly yet firm way to stop swearing.
         2. Tell them that you will put them in hell if they do not stop
            swearing.
         3. Put them in hell.
         4. If they continue still, frog them.
         5. If they get onto the game as another character, ban the IP
            address in question.
    3. Harassment
       Harassment of other players is actually quite simple. A player is
       harassing another player if that player complains about it.
       Action:
         1. Tell the player to ask the harassing player to stop
         2. If the harassing continues, you tell the harassing player to
            stop.
         3. If the harassing continues, tell the harassing player to stop
            or you'll beam him in hell
         4. Beam him in hell
         5. Frog him
         6. Ban his IP Address.

Deputy Rules
------------
1. Deputies should not "help" normal players in extravagant ways.
       (for example making them invulnerable, giving them money, telling
       what to do and where to do it, giving them huge battle axes or big
       hitpoints so nobody can kill them)
    2. Overall/Global changes to the game should be discussed (through
       for example email) with ALL deputies and Karn. Only afterwards may
       any global/overall change take place. Global changes will only be
       executed by Karn, as they have a huge impact on the game and could
       make the game unstable or even unoperable.
    3. Deputies will not interfere with guilds, as long as these guilds
       stick by the general rules of the game. They are allowed to make
       changes to the game/guild if the guild-headman/woman has asked for
       these changes.
       (Not, for instance, punishing people for leaving a guild. They do
       that of their own free will. If people are to be punished for
       leaving a guild by paying, or losing spells/mana or something,
       they ought to be warned in advance, perferably before joining)
   4. Deputies will not react to (complaining) offensive emails, but
       will ignore them with the disdain that these emails deserve.
    5. Deputies must always be polite.
    6. Deputies must always remain impartial.
    7. Deputies must leave their feelings and other baggage outside the
       mud!!! This game is hard enough to administer without letting
       characters/deputies/Karn get to you. If you cannot control your
       feelings it is better to not be a deputy.
    8. Karn has the right to VETO changes if he feels that they do not
       stroke with the nature of the game. (I found The Stick of
       Multiple-Target Decimation funny, but lets be serious here)
       However, he should use this right sparingly.
    9. Karn has the right to bring in changes to the game, without
       permission from deps, but these changes do need to be in character
       with the game. Karn does have the obligation however of
       communicating these changes with the deps first.

Deputy Rules
------------

0. Deputies should not misuse their powers. (this is a general rule, and can
be interpreted in a lot of ways, one of the most common ones is that the
deps do not obtain private player information unless for solving
problems/aiding the game)

1. It is ABSOLUTELY FORBIDDEN for deputies to share their passwords/userids
with other non-dep players. This not only counts for passwords and userids
but also for other private information or discussions that appear between
the deps or are stored in the database/logfiles/etc. In general it is
forbidden to nosy in the logfiles of players (with logfiles I mean the files
that contain the actions of players of the game, what they have said, what
they have done.) unless there is reason to believe that one of the players
was either attempting to crack the game or harassing other players. It is
okay to share information if this information is relatively harmless or
concerns what player(s) need to know.

2. In theory every deputy has the priviledge to ban people if they are bad.
Just mail deputy@egroups.com why you ban them and put it in the ban table as
well. This in order to make everyone understand why you are banning them.
There are no strict rules on when to ban them. Most of the time leniency is
a good thing, except when they are obviously crossing the line. A good
measure of badness, I think, is when someone else complains about a person.

3. Deputies should not "help" normal players in extravagant ways. (for
example making them invulnerable, giving them money, telling what to do
and where to do it, giving them huge battle axes or big hitpoints so nobody
can kill them)

4. Overall/Global changes to the game should be discussed (through
for example email) with ALL deputies and Karn. Only afterwards may any
global/overall change take place. Global changes will only be executed by
Karn, as they have a huge impact on the game and could make the game
unstable or even unoperable.

5. Deputies will not react to (complaining) offensive emails, but will
ignore them with the disdain that these emails deserve.

6. Deputies must leave their feelings and other baggage
 the mud!!! This game is hard enough to administer
without letting characters/deputies/Karn get to you. If you cannot control
your feelings it is better to not be a deputy.

7. Karn has the right to VETO changes if he feels that they do not stroke 
with the nature of the game. 
(I found The Stick of Multiple-Target Decimation funny, but
lets be serious here) However, he should use this right sparingly.

8. Karn has the right to bring in changes to the game, without permission
from deps, but these changes do need to be in character with the game. Karn
does have the obligation however of communicating these changes with the deps
first.

9. A Deputy should, if he/she disagrees with another deputy, resolve the
entire matter in the deputy group, and not take the disagreement out of the
group of deputies and onto the game. This is necessary in order for normal
players to see us as a solid front.

Any other suggestions and ideas?
I, Elwood have a suggestion regarding security
Every 30 days deps should be rquired to change their SSH and MUD passwords.

-- 
Karn (Ruler of Karchan, Keeper of the Key to the Room of Lost Souls)
Maarten van Leunen
-----BEGIN GEEK CODE BLOCK-----
Version 3.12
GCS$ dpu(-) s+++:++ a->? C+++(++++)$ UL++++(BS)$ P-- L+++>++++ E--- W+++ N--
o? K? w---$ O---- M-- !V PS+ PE Y PGP-- t+ 5-- X++ R+ !tv b++ DI++ D++ G--
e++ h+>* !r>+ y>++
-----END GEEK CODE BLOCK-----
("In the likely event of an accident, put your head between your knees and
kiss your bum goodbye.")







