
OVERVIEW: A thief will try to pawn off a book on the party that is actually
a book of infinite spells 

TRIGGER: The women will try to sell the book to who ever wants to buy it.
She will start by asking 10,000 for the book, but
will go as low as 100. She wants to get some cash so she can leave the city.
She will tell them that she found it in a vault in the
sewer. 

DESCRIPTION: While walking down the street you see what appears to be a
women dressed in robes waving you over to
the alley. Strung over her back is a bound leather sack. 

DM NOTES: The book is a Book of Infinite Spells. It was stolen from a local
mage (who will be very pissed off). To limit the
balance in getting the book for such a small value, have many of the pages
be blank. 

KEY: The wizard who is owner of the book is tracking the book. He sees the
PC's with the books and will hunt them down.
One of the pages could have a curse on the page, Thus when the PC uses that
page (looks like a fly spell) s/he is cursed. Thus
an adventure to remove curse or find out what it is. 


OVERVIEW: A local nodel was robbed in his coach about an hour ago, and sees
the party. He thinks that one of the
members looks like the assailents and calls for the local guard. 

TRIGGER: A merchant walking down the street see the party and stops to look
at them when they walk by. A few steps past
he turns and yells Thief! 

DESCRIPTION: (Roll 1d6 [1/2 needed] to notice man looking at you) You notice
a man dressed infine clothes stop along
side of the road and look your way. As you pass by him he stares closely at
your party. A few steps pass he yells "Thief!" and
points a finger at you! He then starts yelling for the local guard. (Which
are within hearing range) 

DM NOTES: The noble is a local respected man. He actually thinks that the
group is part of the robbery team(or at least one
member). If the PC's try to confront him before the guards get there he
moves away. After the gurads come in the ask the noble
to tell them whats wrong. If the PC's attack the guards more guards will
come and they will be thrown in jail, or have to escape
town! When the Nobel tels the guard of what he thinks he mentions that the
one he thinks is the guy/girl he says that he saw a
tatoo on his left hand. That will clear the PC's if they dont have a tatoo.
If they do they have a tatoo THEY have to prove their
innocence. 

KEY: PC's are hunted by the noble (if they flee). PC's are bought dinner as
an appolgy and asked if they would help find the
robbers (If they are proved innocent) 


OVERVIEW: A large water snake is moving through the water 

TRIGGER: The party is travelling through the sewers for some reason, when
they come across a large snake. 

DESCRIPTION: Wading through the sewers when out of the corner of your eye
you see something move in the water. You
face the direction you think you saw the movement, to see if it was anything
more than just the current, or one of the many rats
that are running around... 

DM NOTES: This is best to happen at a cross section of a sewer, but can
appear anywhere. There is a snake approaching
the the party. When they turn towards the water movement, the PC closest to
the snake will be grabbed. Roll a Dex check at
-4 to determine if s/he is dragged under water. The snake is of the
-constricting type, and will attempt to strangulate the victem.
If the rest of the party attacks the snake there is a 50% chance of hitting
the PC caught by the snake. 

KEY: If snake escapes party it can go back to its nest where some treasure
could be waiting for the smart PCs 


OVERVIEW: A Demon has pawned off a book on a local farmer that will ensnare
and teleport everyone within a set of
wards to thy demons lair. 

TRIGGER: The party hears a crier (or sees a sign) proclaiming that the long
lost blessed book of ______ has been found!
Any who hear its words will be blessed by fortune and be purged of all evil,
etc etc etc, this is really a clever ploy by the demon
to get as many people to come to the square and hear the farmer read the
book, the deamon has placed magic wards around
the square. 

DESCRIPTION: While walking down the street you see a young man walking down
the street reading from a scroll in a loud
voice, as he approaches you can here him speak, "...Eternal Fortune, Wealth,
Prosperity, Long life. Those wishing to hear the
words of the eternal, come to the city square at noon tommorow where the sun
shall bless all and all sin will be stripped from
your soals. Those who hear the words from the Blessed Book are forever
blessed. The book may be read but once, then it will
return to it's creator. Come all and be blessed with Etternal Fortune..."
The criers voice fades as he moves out of sight. 

DM's Notes: The "Blessed Book is actually a powerful magic item that
teleports all within a set of magical signs down to the
demons lair. The lair is deep below the city (under the sewers). It is hot
and steamy and water(sewer) seeps down the walls. A
red fire light comes from a pit in the center of the room, next to which the
demon is standing. He smiles at the party and then
says "Welcome". After which he attacks. [Note: this should be for a higher
level party. If not you can have a group of
adventures save the party from the demon. (they were hunting it)]. There is
a small chest with treasure in it from previous people
teleported in. 

KEY: If the party escapes out through the sewers the demon might try to hunt
them down, or send minons after them.
Remember, not only will the party be fighting to survive, they must rescue
all these people and take them from the abyss after
the deamon is defeated, the demon should retire to avoid total defeat, and
the party may have to chase it and subdue it to get it
to send them ALL back (if the just say send us back, the speaker and two
people close to him may get sent back, but no one
else! Remember it is going to twist anything it can. (It should offer them
payment to leave and forget. Meaning it literaly strips
the memory of the entire incident from them.) 

POSTED BY: Jared Thaler (ez040915\@natasha.ucdavis.edu) 

OVERVIEW: A dead body of a missing merchant is found. 

TRIGGER: The party is travelling through the sewers for some reason, when
they come across a dead body. 

DESCRIPTION: Wading through the sewers when out of the corner of your eye
you see something move in the water. You
face the direction you think you saw the movement, to see if it was anything
more than just the current, or one of the many rats
that are running around... 

DM NOTES: Its the dead body of a merchant that is bobbing in the current.
The body belongs to that of a local merchant that
was recently reported missing. It lies just below the water. 

KEY: On the body could be a note letting the PC's know who the killer was,
possibly another local merchant, or a local lord. 

